## 2.1. General

**2.1.1.** A game of Disney Lorcana is divided into three distinct stages: Setup, In-Game, and Cleanup. Each stage follows a list of procedures each player must follow. These stages occur independently and don’t overlap.

**2.1.2.** Games have a set structure for selecting a starting player and determining turn order, specified by the format of the game being played and the series, that is the number of games being played.

**2.1.3.** In a two-player game, the turn order is: starting player, then non-starting player. In a multiplayer game, every player who isn’t the starting player is a non-starting player. Turn order begins with the starting player and then moves to the starting player’s left, continuing clockwise until all players have taken their turn.

**2.1.3.1.** In a two-game series, the player who wasn’t the starting player for the first game is the starting player for the second game.

**2.1.3.2.** In a best-of-N series, the losing player selects whether to be the starting player or not for the next game. This is known as the “play-draw” rule.

---

## 2.2. Setup Stage

**2.2.1.** During the Setup stage, players prepare to play a game of Disney Lorcana by following the steps listed here.

**2.2.1.1.** First, the players agree upon a method for randomly determining who is the starting player of the game. This can include rolling dice, flipping a coin, or other safe and reasonable methods that can be performed easily within the play area. Once the starting player of the game is determined, the game’s turn order has been established.

**2.2.1.2.** Second, each player shuffles their deck. Players may use any reasonable form of shuffling they find convenient and comfortable, but the method chosen must sufficiently randomize the deck. Once done, each player must be offered an opportunity to shuffle, cut, or shuffle and cut their opponent’s deck. Once both decks are randomized sufficiently, they’re considered ready to play and are placed in the play area. All cards in a player’s deck should be oriented the same way.

**2.2.1.3.** Third, each player begins the game with 0 lore.

**2.2.1.4.** Fourth, each player draws 7 cards. These cards are known as each player’s “opening hand.”

**2.2.2.** Once each player has drawn their opening hands, they each may alter their hands, beginning with the starting player and then proceeding in turn order. Each player can alter their hand only once in each game, following the steps listed here.

**2.2.2.1.** First, the starting player selects any number of cards from their hand and places them on the bottom of their deck without revealing them. Then, they draw until they have 7 cards in their hand.

**2.2.2.2.** Second, in turn order, each other non-starting player decides whether they’re going to alter their hand, and if so, completes the step in 2.2.2.1.

**2.2.2.3.** Third, each player who altered their hand by 1 or more cards shuffles their deck. Each player who shuffled their deck must give an opposing player an opportunity to cut, shuffle, or shuffle and cut the deck.

**2.2.3.** After each player completed the steps in 2.2.2.1 through 2.2.2.3, the game enters the In-Game stage and opens with the starting player’s Beginning Phase.

---

## 2.3. In-Game Stage

**2.3.1.** In the In-Game stage, players play the game of Disney Lorcana.

**2.3.2.** Each player, in turn order, takes their turn as described in section 3, “Turn Structure.”

**2.3.3.** Players continue to take turns in turn order until the game ends. A game can end in one of the following ways:

**2.3.3.1.** A player who has 20 or more lore wins the game.

**2.3.3.2.** A player who ends their turn with no cards in their deck loses the game.

**2.3.3.3.** A player who is the last player in a multiplayer game wins the game.

**2.3.3.4.** A player who decides to concede the game at any point, including during the Setup or Cleanup stages, loses the game.

---

## 2.4. Cleanup Stage

**2.4.1.** In the Cleanup stage, each player prepares the play area for the next game, if applicable.

**2.4.1.1.** Each player puts all cards from their Hand, Play, Inkwell, and Discard zones into their deck, oriented the same way.

**2.4.1.2.** Each player removes all counters from the play area.

**2.4.2.** After each player has recombined all their cards into a single deck and the play area is clear of all cards and counters, the next game can begin, if applicable.
