## 3.1. Phases

**3.1.1.** A turn has three phases, which occur in this order: Start-of-Turn Phase, Main Phase, and End-of-Turn Phase.

**3.1.2.** The Start-of-Turn Phase is where a player resets their cards as appropriate for their new turn. This is where all effects that end at the start of the player’s turn end and where effects that occur or begin at the start of their turn happen. The Start-of-Turn Phase has three steps: Ready, Set, and Draw. Each of these steps is performed in the order listed in sections 3.2.1 through 3.2.3

**3.1.3.** The Main Phase is where a player can act on their turn, choosing to take any of the Main Phase turn actions. (See 3.3, “Main Phase.”)

**3.1.4.** The End-of-Turn Phase is where all effects that end at the current turn end and the next player in the turn order becomes the active player. (See 3.4 “End-of-Turn Phase.”)

---

## 3.2. Start-of-Turn Phase

### 3.2.1. Ready

**3.2.1.1.** The active player readies all their cards in play and in their inkwell.

**3.2.1.2.** Effects that apply “during your turn” start applying.

**3.2.1.3.** Effects that end at “the start of your turn” or at “the start of your next turn” end.

**3.2.1.4.** Triggered abilities that happen “at the start of your turn” or that occur at any time during the Ready step are added to the bag but don’t yet resolve.

### 3.2.2. Set

**3.2.2.1.** The active player’s characters that are in play are no longer “drying” and will be able to quest, challenge, or {E} to pay costs for activated abilities or song cards.

**3.2.2.2.** The active player gains lore from locations they have in play with a {L} characteristic. This isn’t a triggered ability and doesn’t use the bag.

**3.2.2.3.** The active player resolves any triggered abilities in the bag that were added during the Set step or the Ready step.

### 3.2.3. Draw

**3.2.3.1.** The active player draws a card from their deck. If this turn is the first turn of the game, the starting player skips this step.

**3.2.3.2.** Once all effects have been resolved and there are no more abilities in the bag, the game moves into the Main Phase.

---

## 3.3. Main Phase

**3.3.1.** During the Main Phase, a player can perform the turn actions listed in section 4, “Turn Actions.”

**3.3.2.** The active player can declare the end of their turn at any time during the Main Phase of their turn as long as they follow the rules listed in section 3.3.2.1. Once they do so, the game moves to the End-of-Turn Phase.

**3.3.2.1.** If the active player is performing a turn action and/or there are abilities in the bag waiting to resolve, the active player can’t declare the end of their turn and move to the End-of-Turn phase until the turn action is fully complete and there are no more abilities in the bag waiting to resolve.

---

## 3.4. End-of-Turn Phase

**3.4.1.** Once the active player has declared the end of their turn, they end their turn using the following process.

**3.4.1.1.** First, triggered abilities that would occur “At the end of the turn” and “At the end of your turn” are added to and resolve from the bag.

**3.4.1.2.** Second, effects that would end at the end of the active player’s turn end. This includes effects with a stated duration of “this turn” (e.g., Support). Any triggered abilities that would occur are added to and resolve from the bag.

**3.4.2.** Once there are no more triggered abilities to resolve from the bag, the turn ends for the active player and there is a final game state check (see 1.9.1). Then, the next player becomes the active player and starts their turn.
