# 5. CARDS AND CARD TYPES

## 5.1. Card States

### 5.1.1.
While in any zone except for a player’s hand, a card can have one or more specific states.

### 5.1.1.1. Ready
When a card is readied, it’s turned upright and is known as a ready card. Characters and items enter play ready.

### 5.1.1.2. Exerted
When a card is exerted, it’s turned sideways. A player can use an exerted card’s abilities that don’t require {E} as part of the cost. A player can’t use any of an exerted card’s abilities that include {E} as part of the cost.

### 5.1.1.3. Damaged
A card that has at least 1 damage is considered to be damaged.

### 5.1.1.4. Undamaged
A card that has no damage is considered to be undamaged.

### 5.1.1.5. Under
A card that has one or more cards on top of it is considered to be under the top card in a stack (see 5.1.7). A player can’t choose any card that’s under the top card (see 5.1.6) in a stack. A card that’s under another card and in the Play zone isn’t considered to be in play. Any player can look at a faceup card that’s under another card at any time. No player can look at the front of a facedown card that’s under another card at any time, not even their own.

### 5.1.1.6. On Top
A card that has one or more cards under it is considered to be on top of all cards under it. A card that’s on top of one or more cards doesn’t gain the text of any card under it. The card that’s on top of all other cards in a stack is called the top card.

### 5.1.1.7. In a stack
When a card is on top of or under one or more other cards in play, it and all cards under or on top of it are considered to be in a stack. These cards are considered to be in a stack only while in play. If the top card in a stack leaves play, all cards in the stack move to the same zone as the top card, and these cards are no longer considered to be in a stack.

### 5.1.1.8. In Play
A card that’s faceup in the Play zone with no cards on top of it is considered to be in play. If a card is facedown, under another card, or in any zone other than the Play zone, it’s not considered to be in play.

### 5.1.1.9. Faceup
A card in the play area with its back (i.e., the side with the Illuminary icon) facing down toward the play surface and its front (i.e., the side with the card’s cost and classifications) facing up toward the players is considered to be faceup. If a card is put under another card faceup or has another card put on top of it while faceup, it’s still considered to be faceup. A card that’s faceup is publicly known to all players. Any player can look at a faceup card at any time, even if the faceup card is under another card.

### 5.1.1.10. Facedown
A card in the play area with its back (i.e., the side with the Illuminary icon) facing up toward the players and its front (i.e., the side with the card’s cost and classifications) facing down toward the play surface is considered to be facedown. No player can look at the front of a facedown card at any time, not even their own. A facedown card is never considered to be in play.

### 5.1.1.11. Drying
A character that entered play during their player’s current turn is considered to be drying. A drying character can't quest, can’t be declared as a challenging character, and can't {E} to pay any cost.

### 5.1.1.12. Dry
A character that’s been in play since the start of their player’s turn is considered to be dry. A dry character can quest and can be declared as a challenging character. Items and dry characters can {E} to pay any cost.

### 5.1.2.
A card in any zone except a player’s hand can have the state(s) described below. A card can have multiple states at the same time.

### 5.1.2.1.
A character enters play with the ready, undamaged, in play, faceup, and drying states. A character that’s in play can have any of the states listed in sections 5.1.1 through 5.1.12 except under and facedown.

### 5.1.2.2.
An item enters play with the ready, in play, and faceup states. An item that’s in play can’t have the damaged, undamaged, under, or facedown states.

### 5.1.2.3.
A location enters play with the undamaged, in play, and faceup states. A location that’s in play can’t have the ready, exerted, under, or facedown states.

### 5.1.2.4.
A card in a player’s inkwell can only have the ready, exerted, and facedown states.

### 5.1.2.5.
A card in a player’s deck can only have the facedown state.

### 5.1.2.6.
A card in a player’s discard can only have the faceup state.

### 5.1.2.7.
A card in a player’s hand can’t have any state.

### 5.1.3.
If a state is applied to or removed from a card for any reason, the state is applied or removed immediately.

>**Example A:** The active player decides to quest with a ready Flounder – Voice of Reason. As they exert Flounder to quest, the ready state is removed from him immediately, and the exerted state is applied to him immediately.

>**Example B:** The active player decides to play a Tinker Bell – Giant Fairy using her Shift ability on top of a Tinker Bell – Tiny Tactician that’s ready, undamaged, in play, faceup, and dry. As that happens, all states except faceup are immediately removed from Tinker Bell – Tiny Tactician and the under and in a stack states are immediately applied. The ready, undamaged, on top, in a stack, in play, faceup, and dry states are immediately applied to Tinker Bell – Giant Fairy. The ready, undamaged, and dry states are immediately applied to the shifted Tinker Bell because the character she’s put on top of already had those states. See 10.10 “Shift” for more information.

## 5.2. Parts of a Card

### 5.2.1.
Most parts of a card appear on all card types. Specific differences are noted in the entry for the relevant card type.

### 5.2.2. Card Cost
The amount of ink needed to play the card.

### 5.2.3. Inkwell Symbol
If this swirl icon, {C}, is present around the card’s cost, the card can be put into its player’s inkwell. Cards in an inkwell represent that player’s ink. Each card counts as 1 {I}.

### 5.2.4. Art
The art isn’t used for gameplay.

### 5.2.5. Ink Type
The ink type of the card, identified by the ink type symbol. The colored bar behind the card’s name reflects the associated color. A card’s ink type is important for building a deck and may be referenced in card rules. The ink types are: Amber, Amethyst, Emerald, Ruby, Sapphire, and Steel.

### 5.2.5.1.
Some cards have more than one ink type. Cards with two ink types have two ink type symbols and count as each ink type.

### 5.2.6. Name
The name of the card appears in larger print. A card’s name applies in all zones. An effect that looks for a card with a specified name looks only at this line and ignores the version (see 5.3.6.1). The whole character or location name must be the same as the specified name to be a match. A character’s or location’s name and version together constitute its full name.

**Example A:** Tinker Bell – Peter Pan’s Ally has an ability called Loyal and Devoted that reads, “Your characters named Peter Pan gain Challenger +1. (They get +1 {S} while challenging.)” If you have Peter Pan – Fearless Fighter and Peter Pan – Never Land Hero in play with this Tinker Bell, she gives both versions of Peter Pan Challenger +1.

**Example B:** The Sorcerer’s Hat has the activated ability Incredible Energy which reads, “{E}, 1 {I} — Name a card, then reveal the top card of your deck. If it's the named card, put that card into your hand. Otherwise, put it on the top of your deck.” If the active player names Lucky for the effect and then reveals Lucky Dime from the top of their deck, that isn’t a match. Lucky Dime is then put back on the top of that player’s deck.

### 5.2.6.1.
Some characters have two singular names in addition to their printed name. These characters have an ampersand (&) or something else that’s treated as an ampersand (see 5.6.2.3) between the two names listed on the name line. If an effect looks for a card or character with a specified name, the specified name must exactly match one of the names on the card.

### 5.2.6.2.
A character with multiple names is still a single character.

**Example A:** Flotsam & Jetsam – Entangling Eels is a character that has three names. The card is a character named “Flotsam,” a character named “Jetsam,” and a character named “Flotsam & Jetsam.”

**Example B:** Bruno Madrigal – Undetected Uncle has an ability called You Just Have to See It that reads, “{E} — Name a card, then reveal the top card of your deck. If it's the named card, put it into your hand and gain 3 lore. Otherwise, put it on the top of your deck.” If the active player names “Flotsam” for the ability’s effect and then reveals either Flotsam or Flotsam & Jetsam from the top of their deck, the revealed card is a match and the active player puts it into their hand and gains 3 lore. If the player names “Flotsam & Jetsam” and then reveals Flotsam from the top of their deck, that isn’t a match, and the player doesn’t put the revealed card into their hand and doesn’t gain 3 lore. Flotsam is then put back on the top of that player’s deck.

### 5.2.6.3.
One character, Chip ’n‘ Dale – Recovery Rangers, doesn’t have the ampersand (&) in the card’s name line but is treated as if it did.

### 5.2.7. Classifications
Categories that identify some characteristics of the card and may be referenced in card rules.

**Example:** Hades – King of Olympus has an ability called Sinister Plot that reads, “This character gets +1 {L} for each other Villain character you have in play.” This ability references cards with the Villain classification.

### 5.2.8. Rules Text
Any abilities, effects, and rules text the card has appear in this space, called the text box. Some abilities have a cost to use them. Abilities can be keywords (see section 8) or have a story name. The story name is used for referencing the ability and isn’t used for gameplay.

### 5.2.9. Flavor Text
Flavor text isn’t used for gameplay.

### 5.2.10. Ancillary Information
Ancillary information isn’t used for gameplay.

#### 5.2.10.1. Artist Name
Artist who illustrated the card.

#### 5.2.10.2. Collector Number
Indicates where this card appears in the set. The number of unique standard cards in the set appears after the slash.

#### 5.2.10.3. Set Number
What number set this card is from.

**Example:** The First Chapter, Rise of the Floodborn, Into the Inklands, and Ursula’s Return are indicated with 1, 2, 3, and 4 here, respectively.

#### 5.2.10.4. Language
The language the card is in.

#### 5.2.10.5. Legal Text
Copyright information.

#### 5.2.10.6. Rarity Symbol
Indicates how common the card is among the cards in the set it was printed in.

## 5.3. Characters

### 5.3.1.
Characters are a type of card that can be in play. A character card that’s in the Play zone is a character; in all other zones it’s a character card.

### 5.3.2.
Characters are generally played during a player’s Main Phase (see 3.3).

### 5.3.3.
Characters don’t list “Character” on their classification line. A card needs to have both characteristics outlined in 5.3.3.1 and 5.3.3.2 to be a character. If not, the card isn’t a character.

#### 5.3.3.1.
A character has a {S} value and a {W} value.

#### 5.3.3.2.
A character has at least one of the following listed on the classification line: Alien, Ally, Broom, Captain, Colossus, Deity, Detective, Dinosaur, Dragon, Dreamborn, Entangled, Fairy, Floodborn, Gargoyle, Ghost, Giant, Hero, Hunny, Hyena, Illusion, Inventor, King, Knight, Madrigal, Mentor, Musketeer, Pirate, Prince, Princess, Puppy, Queen, Racer, Robot, Seven Dwarfs, Sorcerer, Storyborn, Super, Tigger, Titan, Villain, Whisper.

### 5.3.4.
Only characters can quest or challenge.

### 5.3.5.
A character must have been in play at the beginning of the Set step of their player’s turn in order to quest, challenge, or {E} as part of a cost (see 3.2.2, “Set”).

### 5.3.6.
Characters have additional parts on their cards.

#### 5.3.6.1. Version
A card’s version differentiates cards with the same name. A card’s version name applies in all zones. A character’s name and version together constitute its full name.

#### 5.3.6.2. Strength {S}
Primarily, how much damage this character deals in a challenge, though card effects can also reference this value. If a character would deal damage equal to its {S} and it has 0 or less {S}, it deals no damage.

#### 5.3.6.3. Willpower {W}
Damage on a character is persistent, which means it accumulates over the course of the game. If a character has damage equal to or higher than their {W}, they’re banished as a result of a game state check. Card effects can also reference this value.

#### 5.3.6.4. Lore Value
How much lore their player gains when the character quests.

---

## 5.4. Actions

### 5.4.1.
Actions are a type of card that enters play briefly to generate an immediate effect. An action card that’s in the Play zone is an action; in all other zones it’s an action card.

#### 5.4.1.1.
An action is defined as having “Action” on the card’s classification line.

#### 5.4.1.2.
Actions are played from a player’s hand. When an action is played, its effect resolves immediately. An action is put into the Play zone while the effect resolves. After the effect resolves, the action is put into the player’s discard pile. An effect from an action doesn’t enter the bag. (See 7.7, “Bag.”)

### 5.4.2.
Actions are generally played during a player’s Main Phase (see 3.3).

### 5.4.3. Effects
Actions have effects rather than abilities.

### 5.4.4. Songs

#### 5.4.4.1.
Songs are a type of action that are defined as having both “Action” and “Song” on the classification line.

#### 5.4.4.2.
Songs have a special rule in addition to the normal rules for actions (see 5.4.1 through 5.4.3). All songs allow the player to pay an alternate cost instead of their ink cost to play them. Being a song means “You may pay, ‘{E} a character with ink cost N or greater’ to play this card instead of its ink cost,” where N equals the ink cost of the song. This is called singing the song.

#### 5.4.4.3.
Some songs also have the keyword Sing Together, which functions similarly to the special rule. (See 8.12, “Sing Together.”)

### 5.4.5.
Triggered abilities that occur from playing an action are added to the bag but won’t resolve until after the action is played (see 4.3.4).

---

## 5.5. Items

### 5.5.1.
Items are a type of card that can be in play. An item is an item only while in the Play zone; in all other zones it’s an item card.

### 5.5.2.
Items are generally played during a player’s Main Phase (see 3.3).

### 5.5.3.
An item is defined as having “Item” on the classification line.

### 5.5.4.
If an item has an ability, that ability can be used during the turn the item is played.

---

## 5.6. Locations

### 5.6.1.
Locations are a type of card that can be in play. A location is a location while in the Play zone; in all other zones it’s a location card.

### 5.6.2.
Locations are generally played during a player’s Main Phase (see 3.3).

### 5.6.3.
A location is defined as having “Location” on the classification line. Locations are the only card type printed in landscape (i.e., with the longer sides on the top and bottom).

### 5.6.4.
If a location has an ability, that ability can be used during the turn the location is played.

### 5.6.5.
Locations have additional parts on their cards.

#### 5.6.5.1. Move Cost
The amount of ink needed to move a character to this location.

#### 5.6.5.2. Willpower {W}
Damage on a location is persistent, which means it accumulates over the course of the game. If a location has damage equal to or higher than its {W}, it’s banished as the result of a game state check. Locations don’t have a {S} characteristic and don’t deal damage.

#### 5.6.5.3. Lore Value
How much lore its player gains at the start of their turn during the Set step.
