
### 7.1. General

#### 7.1.1.
All zones are considered separate from one another.  
Some zones may physically be present within the same space but are still separate zones for gameplay purposes.

**Example:**  
The table represents the game area of the players.  
Although the players’ decks, inkwells, and discard piles physically occupy that space, they aren’t in play, as they’re all separate zones.

#### 7.1.2.
Cards in a public zone are publicly known.  
Players can look at or count the cards in any public zone at any time.  
Cards in a public zone are considered public information.

##### 7.1.2.1.
The public zones are play, discard, and the bag.

#### 7.1.3.
Cards in a private zone aren’t publicly known.  
Players can’t look at them unless directed to by a game rule (e.g., drawing a card) or an effect.  
Players can count the number of cards in a private zone at any time.  

A private zone isn’t considered private while it’s revealed.  
If part of a private zone is revealed, only that part isn’t considered private.  
Cards in a private zone are considered private information.

##### 7.1.3.1.
The private zones are hand, deck, and inkwell.

#### 7.1.4.
If an effect allows a player to look at one of their private zones for a specific card or type of card, they may fail to find that card.  
If an effect allows a player to look at one of their public zones for a specific card or type of card, they can’t fail to find a card and must choose an appropriate card if able.

#### 7.1.5.
A card can exist in only one zone at a time.  
Only cards in a player’s Play zone are considered in play.  
Cards outside the game aren’t in play.  
Cards in a player’s deck, discard, hand, and inkwell aren’t in play.

#### 7.1.6.
If a card enters any other zone from play, all gained effects, damage, and other gained characteristics are removed, and that card becomes a new card.  
Some abilities and effects may still refer to the card in its new zone.

##### 7.1.6.1.
If an effect that is generated and waiting to resolve is from a played action, that effect will resolve before any triggered abilities can be chosen to resolve.

---

### 7.2. Deck

#### 7.2.1.
A player’s deck is the set of cards they start the game with.  
The deck is where these cards are held during the game and where a player draws cards from (see 1.12).

#### 7.2.2.
The deck is a private zone.  
The cards in a player’s deck remain facedown at all times and in a single pile.  
Players can’t look at or change the order of cards in their decks during a game.  
Players can count the remaining cards in any player’s deck at any time.

#### 7.2.3.
If cards are added to the top or bottom of a deck “in any order” and any of the cards were faceup, the order in which the faceup cards are added to the deck must be known by all players.

**Example:**  
A player has two shifted characters in play, each with 2 cards total in a stack and each with 2 {S}.  
Their opponent plays *Under The Sea*, a song with an effect that reads,  
“Put all opposing characters with 2 {S} or less on the bottom of their players’ decks in any order.”

The player can freely order and mix the individual stacks of cards around before placing them on the bottom of the deck.  
Because all of these cards were faceup and thus known to all players, both the player and the opponent know the order the cards are placed in.

##### 7.2.3.1.
If those faceup cards are in one or more stacks, and/or any of those stacks contain both faceup and facedown cards, any of the cards in those stacks can be combined and freely ordered with the other cards being added to the deck, including cards in other stacks.  
No states are applied to or removed from those cards until they’re added to the top or bottom of the deck.

---

### 7.3. Hand

#### 7.3.1.
A player’s hand is where drawn cards are held.  
Cards can be added to the hand by other effects as well.  
Players start the game with an “opening hand” of 7 drawn cards (see 2.2.1.4).

#### 7.3.2.
The hand is a private zone.  
Players can look at the cards in their own hand but can’t look at the cards in another player’s hand at any time.  
Players can count the number of cards in any hand at any time.  
Players can hold and rearrange their hands in any comfortable and/or convenient fashion.

#### 7.3.3.
There’s no maximum hand size.  
A hand can’t have fewer than 0 cards in it.

#### 7.3.4.
If an effect instructs someone to discard, that player chooses the indicated number of cards from their hand and puts them into their discard pile.

---

### 7.4. Play

#### 7.4.1.
A player’s Play zone is where their cards are played.  
Characters, items, and locations can be in the Play zone until they leave the Play zone for any reason.  
Actions can be in the Play zone only for as long as their effect is resolving.  
Players can’t play cards into an opponent’s Play zone.

#### 7.4.2.
The Play zone is a public zone.  
Players can look at the cards any player has in play at any time.  
Players can count the number of cards any player has in play at any time.  
Players can rearrange their Play zones in any comfortable and/or convenient fashion, provided that the overall layout is clear and understandable to all players.  
The status of cards in play can’t be hidden from other players.

##### 7.4.2.1.
Facedown cards in play are considered to be private information, even if those cards were public information at one point.  
Players may count the number of facedown cards in play.  
Players can’t look at facedown cards unless a game rule or effect allows the player to do so.  
This is an exception to section 7.4.2.

#### 7.4.3.
Whenever 1 or more cards would leave play, they first check whether any abilities would trigger from them and/or others leaving play with them.  
The triggered abilities “see” the other cards leaving the Play zone along with the source card of the triggered ability.

**Example:**  
*Lyle Tiberius Rourke – Cunning Mercenary* has an ability called *Thanks For Volunteering* that reads,  
“Whenever one of your other characters is banished, each opponent loses 1 lore.”

If a player has Lyle and two other characters in play, and their opponent plays *Be Prepared*, the triggered ability on Lyle occurs twice, once for each character banished along with Lyle.

---

### 7.5. Inkwell

#### 7.5.1.
A player’s inkwell is where they put the cards they use as ink throughout the game.  
These cards are ink cards and each represents 1 {I} the player can use to pay ink costs.  
Nothing on the front of an ink card affects the ink it generates.

#### 7.5.2.
Cards are put into a player’s inkwell facedown and ready.  
If multiple cards are put into a player’s inkwell at the same time, each card is treated as a separate instance.

#### 7.5.3.
There’s no limit to the number of cards a player can have in their inkwell.

#### 7.5.4.
The inkwell is a private zone.  
Players can’t look at a card in an inkwell at any time, even their own.  
Players can count the number of cards in any inkwell at any time.  
Players can arrange the cards in their inkwell in any way, provided that ink cards are kept facedown and separate from cards in all other zones at all times.  
The status of cards in an inkwell can’t be hidden from other players.

#### 7.5.5.
If a card allows a player to put an “additional” card into their inkwell on their turn, they announce they’re using that effect, then follow the normal steps of inking a card (see 4.2.3.1).

#### 7.5.6.
Whenever an effect puts a card from another zone into the inkwell, the card isn’t revealed and isn’t required to have the inkwell symbol.  
It enters the inkwell facedown as ink (see 4.2.3.2).

---

### 7.6. Discard

#### 7.6.1.
A player’s discard (also known as their “discard pile” or their “Discard zone”) is generally where their cards that have left play are held.

#### 7.6.2.
The discard pile is a public zone.  
The cards in a player’s discard remain faceup at all times and in a single pile.  
Players can look at and count the cards in any player’s discard pile at any time.  
A player can look at and rearrange the cards in their own discard pile at any time.

#### 7.6.3.
If multiple cards enter a discard pile at the same time, their player puts them into the discard pile in any order.

---

### 7.7. Bag

#### 7.7.1.
Unlike other zones, the bag isn’t a physical space but is only where triggered abilities created by the game wait to resolve.

#### 7.7.2.
Only triggered abilities can be added to the bag.  
Activated abilities, resolving actions, and playing characters, locations, or items aren’t added to the bag.

#### 7.7.3.
Adding abilities to the bag follows specific rules.

##### 7.7.3.1.
Whenever a triggered ability’s condition is met, the ability is added to the bag by the player whose card generated it.  
If multiple triggered abilities happen at the same time, they’re added to the bag simultaneously.  
If the triggered ability’s condition is met while another effect is resolving, it’s added to the bag but the players wait to resolve it until the current effect is completely resolved.

#### 7.7.4.
The order in which effects are resolved from the bag follows a process that continues until there are no more effects to resolve from the bag.

##### 7.7.4.1.
The bag checks to see which players have any abilities in the bag.

##### 7.7.4.2.
If any of those triggered abilities are from the active player, they choose any one of their triggered effects and fully resolve it (see 6.7.2).

##### 7.7.4.3.
After the effect has resolved and the game state check has completed, the bag checks to see if there are any other triggered abilities remaining in the bag and from which player.  
If the last player who resolved an effect still has triggered abilities in the bag, that player continues to resolve their effects from the bag until that player has no more triggered abilities in the bag to resolve.

##### 7.7.4.4.
When the bag check returns with no more effects to resolve from that player, the bag checks to see if the next player in turn order has any triggered abilities in the bag to resolve.  
If they do, that player begins to resolve their effects using the same process the first player did in steps 7.7.4.2 and 7.7.4.3.  
This is known as passing the bag.

##### 7.7.4.5.
This continues through all players in turn order and until there are no more triggered effects in the bag to resolve.  
Once the bag is empty, the game continues with the active player.

#### 7.7.5.
If a triggered ability is added to the bag by the currently resolving player, it's seen by the next bag check and can be chosen to resolve next.

#### 7.7.6.
If a triggered ability is added to the bag by a player who isn’t the currently resolving player, it waits to resolve until that player’s turn to resolve effects from the bag.

#### 7.7.7.
If a player leaves the game while abilities they added to the bag are still waiting to resolve, those abilities cease to exist.

**Example A:**  
The active player quests with a character.  
This meets a trigger condition on the questing character, so the triggered effect is added to the bag to be resolved once the quest turn action is completed.  
When the quest and subsequent game state check are completed, the bag checks for triggered effects to resolve and which players they originated from.  
The check returns with the triggered effect from the active player, who chooses and resolves it.  
After the subsequent game state check is completed, the bag checks again to see if there are any more triggered effects.  
The check returns with none, so the game continues with the active player.

**Example B:**  
The active player quests with a character.  
Three triggered effects are added to the bag: two from the active player and one from the opponent.  
When the bag checks for triggered effects to resolve, the active player chooses and resolves one of their effects.  
During resolution, another triggered effect from the active player is added to the bag.  

After resolution, the bag checks again and returns three triggered effects: two from the active player and one from the opponent.  
The active player was last to resolve an effect, so they can choose another effect to resolve.  
After both of the active player's effects are resolved, the bag passes to the opponent, who resolves their effects.  

During resolution, another triggered effect from the active player is added to the bag.  
After resolution, the bag checks and returns one triggered effect from the active player and that it was the opponent who last resolved an effect.  
Since there are no more triggered effects for the opponent to resolve, the bag passes back to the active player, who resolves their remaining effect.  

When the bag checks again to see if there any more triggered effects to resolve, the check returns with none, so the game continues with the active player.
